---
title: The Ecosystem of R Markdown
layout: post
time: '15:54'
---

[Central Iowa R User Group] (http://www.cirug.com) held a workshop given by Yihui Xie on the ecosystem of R Markdown on July 14, 2015. I will give a quick tour here on R Markdown and the series of R packages Yihui talked about that can be used to generate reproducible and interactive reports.

##### What is R Markdown?

Markdown is a lightweight markup language designed to make authoring content easy for everyone. Rather than writing complex markup code (e.g. LyX, XML,  HTML or LaTeX), Markdown enables the use of a syntax much more like plain-text email.  It is young comparing to the other markup languages. What makes markdown distinct is that it is both machine-readble and human-readble.

R Markdown combines the core syntax of markdown and embedded R code chunks that are run so their output can be included in the final document. R Markdown documents are fully reproducible and the most important, it is simple!

I encourage those who are new to R Markdown start from this introductory article [R Markdown — Dynamic Documents for R](http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com) which can get you started with R Markdown right away. Once you install R Markdown package and learn the most commonly used markdown constructs, you can go into more depth on customizing the behavior of embedded R code. The “Learning More” section on the bottom of the [introductory article](http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com) has a list of reference you can refer to learn more about R Markdown. 


##### Interactive R Markdown Document
There are some packages that can be used to make interactive R Markdown documents. 

